so we wanted to actually correct the
record here a little bit because we had
been working off some bad information
that AOC even though she had castigated
the corporate bailout of the cares Act
had in the end voted for it of course
it's very hard to tell because they
didn't actually have a roll call vote
where you have to record your vote on
this which is just outrageous and
unconscionable but actually it turns out
ioc did vote against that corporate
bailout bill let's take a listen to her
explanation yeah well you know I think
ultimately this debate it was up to each
and every member I don't slight any
member for how they voted I could not
bring myself to to ultimately support
this bill because I believe that people
will soon see the extraordinary
asymmetrical assistance that went to
corporations we're not just talking
about half a trillion dollars that went
to Wall Street as I mentioned in my
remarks that is being leveraged to four
trillion dollars for Wall Street and
corporations so ever all the credit fair
yeah over that correction as far as we
know she's the only Democrat who voted
against this bill is my own sense as far
as we know they're actually trying to
try I think it's an intercept that's
doing a project to try to track and
figure out or maybe it's David and one
of our favorite journalists doing this
project to try to figure out exactly how
everybody voted on this bill it is the
intercept and as far as we know so far
she is the only Democrat who has come
out and said I voted against it which
since there wasn't an actual corded vote
what ultimately matters is who actually
takes accountability for the vote so I
give her I give her a lot of credit it
takes a lot of courage to be the one
standing against everyone else in your
entire party to take this vote it's just
all of this took four days or five days
or actually no it's been more than that
in order to come out and correct the
record because it had been you know
people in the mainstream media women
that's where we got it from saying that
she voted for the bill so I I mean if I
do think it's a little strange if she
waited so long probably because of the
poll
implications of she voted maybe I don't
know I don't want to speculate but she
was very very critical so she may have
thought that everybody got that she
voted against it because she was
passionately critical of what was in
this bill right but so were you know so
was Bernie and he voted for the bill so
it was like I guess that's the operating
assumption so she did vote no on the
bill and that's you know we owe her that
correction and I'm glad that we could
play that here it is interesting that
she did vote no and that she's talking
about it now and it's possibly a fight
in terms of the next bailout negotiation
which is that people have learned at
this point that you can't just go along
you got to play hardball with what the
next Loeb negotiation is beginning to
look like because as we're seeing Chuck
Schumer and Nancy Pelosi are gearing up
for their fight the Republicans are also
gearing up for theirs and they're trying
to keep dissenting voices of trying to
get higher cash payments or paying
people's payroll out of the process so I
commend her in that in that way in that
yeah it's now is the time it's time to
lay the ground yeah that's right now
that's right Congress coming back in
only two weeks from now we need to make
sure that people know how angry
everybody is sixteen point six million
it's gonna be twenty million by the time
that they come back we need to make sure
they exactly know who they're gonna
screw and who they're gonna piss off if
they do not give if they do not give
workers and families the relief that
they deserve because again look the
government is the one that's keeping us
home or it's keeping people home they're
the ones who got people fired and I'm
not saying that people should go back
because I think that was probably the
right thing to do right there's a
special obligation whenever it comes to
that to actually take care of people not
just you know the Fed having a slush
fund for corporations or you know the
Paycheck protection program those are
great but they're not far enough we need
to go all the way in order to fulfill
the social contract that we have
otherwise by the way think about this
and another pandemic you think people
are gonna really stay home if we don't
take care of them this time around that
will never happen right will be mass
civil business not even in another
pandemic in if there's a spike in the
fall this one in six months people
they're gonna take care they're gonna
stay home not if not of this you know
results in complete financial calamity
for them and not even just that but if
they feel like their government did not
back
did not give them did not even try
really to give them what they needed to
get through this time of course they're
not going to comply I mean forget about
it
it's so interesting though the dynamic
with her and the fact that she is
willing to stand out there on her own
and she has a very unlikely fan this
one-time fan I would say again in Matt
Gaetz Carson Matt Gaetz who I have
complex feelings about but is
occasionally write on things and we try
to give him credit when he is really and
this is an interesting comment he made
about AOC because the relic of the
Bernie Sanders campaign will now lay the
groundwork for the eventual Ocasio
cortes run for the presidency they want
people on the platform committee and on
the Rules Committee because even though
Bernie Sanders was not able to drag our
country into a socialist revolution I
think he's still trying to revolutionize
the Democratic Party for ideas animated
most by Ocasio cortes look she was the
energy behind that campaign really from
the beginning and I think that that's
gonna be the next move of the
progressive left she is a logical
successor in a lot of ways and was
obviously an important I mean probably
the most important endorsement that he
received throughout the campaign was AOC
who as we've talked about here came in
when he was in the hospital bed in Las
Vegas it just had a freakin heart attack
and she comes and endorses him and
that's what juices his campaign and gets
him to the point where he's at the verge
of victory so interesting that that's
how gait is easy I think he's right but
not in the laudatory manner that he's
talking which I don't think it's a lot
of very the way he's talking personally
I think I think he's doing I mean the
way I view it is like oh this is a
terrible thing for Democrats it's his
view that ASC would be next I actually
agree with that I mean and I covered
that in that and that radar that I did a
couple of you know a couple weeks ago
which Jimmy Dore apparently really loved
and did a whole thing on but the that
radar was very much talking about the
ground that you actually fight on now
look we give her credit with his new
information we have she did vote no on
the bill but in terms of the particular
cultural fights and the justice Democrat
endorsements that she has made in the
past that a lot of this the momma bear
the Politico article Neera Tandon and
James Carville triangulating if that is
the future of the progressive left
it's an electoral loser it's just not
something that's
happen and you know we have new analysis
right now from Nate Silver who actually
wrote a very thoughtful and I thought
good piece what went wrong for the
Bernie Sanders campaign one of the
things that he talks about that we
talked about with Chuck yesterday was
about the pivot not a sir the pivot but
a logical extension of the progressive
movement from economic populism this is
almost a direct quote to intersectional
leftism of 2016 and 2020 best embodied I
think in the America ad and then the
departure from the America ad in 2020 in
that campaign and that you could see it
reflected in the data which is that
moderate whites or working-class whites
in Michigan who were overwhelmingly for
Bernie some of that was just
anti-hillary vote yeah Chuck said but
some of it was actually based upon his
message yeah in Michigan in particular
so we can look at that and say that okay
whatever the departures that went from
2016 to 2020 there was a problem he got
less votes of course there's 16 other
people in the primary bah blah blah but
it was a bi it was a dual race winner
came down to Michigan and that's
probably the best case study that we
have boasts for you know the for the
Trump campaign electability and all
those things and the direct consequence
of some of these shifts in messaging
while acknowledging that Biden is a
wholly other different category I think
that is where the bulk of the focus on
the post mortem should be if they really
want to win well Glenn Greenwald's point
that I think is correct is that Bernie
became more of a standard-issue Democrat
in the ensuing four years and that was
almost a strategic play by the
Democratic establishment give him a
leadership post right he you know we
went on the unity tour all those things
and so a lot of the appeal of Bernie
wasn't even so much and I think I think
we understand this a lot try to
understand this a lot on the show is a
lot of the appeal of candidates isn't
necessarily policy specific for some
people in the Sanders movement it
definitely is like these are my policy
prayers and that's why I'm with them but
the appeal with the white working class
and with rural voters with Bernie was
more about like they hate the Democratic
Party the Democratic Party is not
popular like let's be clear if you look
at the approval ratings it's not a
popular group of people and there is an
a segment that votes in the Democratic
primary that does not like the deaf
product party and so the fact that they
were like we don't like the Democratic
Party and this guy is also willing to
say he doesn't like the Democratic /
he's not even a Democrat that was part
of the connection as they felt that same
sense of disaffection from the
Democratic Party and this time because
he adopted some of the democratic party
lines and her you know who way he talked
about Trump the way he talked about
impeachment the way he talked about
Russia and those sorts of issues fell
very much into the Democratic party line
and of course pledging to back the
Democratic nominee no matter who it was
made him appear as more of a
standard-issue Democrat which to a
certain segment of the population is not
an appealing I think is so well said
because those I think an Aron Mata is
actually been somebody who's been
tweeting about this and to his credit I
think he was a Bernie Sanders supporter
and he's always criticized him on this
front which is that Russia gate
impeachment talking about the most
dangerous president of my lifetime
saying I will always back the Democratic
nominee of course Joe is electable
against Trump my friend Joe that all of
those things actually make it so that
the people who were talking about these
working-class voters they don't like the
Democratic Party they like the elite
obsessions of Russia gate impeachment
and all this other stuff which Bernie
never said one word on whenever he was
in the Senate and if he did it was in
favor of it
so these playing into these elite
obsessions I see what Bernie said was
that he was like you know what loss
around in 2016 they blame me now I need
to give them give me credit but what I
think real Outsiders sees they'll never
give you credit and by ball you only
discredit yourself in order to the
describe yourself in the eyes of the
voters who loved you for what you were
it was almost an impossible situation
because you talked about that chart that
Matt carp showed favorability of media
and it's on the Democratic side it's
spike high 60s spikes in the Trump era
where it went up to like yeah in the 70s
for trust of the media and so if you're
going against that with most of the
Democratic base I mean you see the way
that Tulsi was trailing with most of the
Democratic base you become completely
off limits you hold a view that is just
not even allowed to be spoken within the
Democratic Party so I think it was kind
of an impossible scenario
with coming back to AoE to kind of round
this out
I think it's yet to be seen what
direction she goes right I think there
are some encouraging signs I think this
vote is really bold and courageous and
puts her squarely in the lane of an
economic populist who understands the
way that not just it rhetorically or
doing you know I think she understands
the way that this moment will be used to
reshape America in a way that is
fundamentally disastrous outcome for the
American working class so that's an
encouraging sign some of the things that
were reported out calling Nancy Pelosi
mama bear that puts her more in the lane
of like you know becoming sort of
standard-issue Democrat those are
troubling signs but to me it's too early
to see yes that is look we'll be
watching closely at least it's
interesting
next weekend rising friends of the show
said Jelani and Ryan Graham are going to
join us discuss the news of the day we
will continue to keep you up-to-date on
the economic and political news
surrounding the Pacific pandemic of
course and please like share and
subscribe so that you guys don't miss
any of our videos right up here we will
see you guys on Monday